---
uid: CredentialManagement
---

# Credential Management

## Users
User authentication and credential management is delegated to the external identity providers.

## Client IDs
Client Ids are valid GUIDs that are randomly generated, or provided by the caller upon creation . A client Id and client Secret pair is required to perform an authentication, for clients that have been issued a secret. The client Id does not need to be protected the same way as a client secret. 

## Client Secrets
### What is a Client Secret?
A client secret is a secret known only to your application and OCS. It protects your resources by only granting access tokens to authorized clients. Client secrets which are used to authenticate a Client are generated by OCS for Client Credentials. Each client can have a maximum of 10 secrets at any given time. 

### OSIsoft recommendations Around Client Secrets
* A secret’s description should contain information about the purpose and where the secret is being used.
* The secret value is created using a cryptographically secure, random number generator and is available only upon creation. OCS does not maintain the actual value of the secret. If a secret were ever lost by the client, it would have to be deleted and a new one created.
* OSIsoft recommends persisting and accessing the client secret to/from secure storage for the environment the client application is running in. Some examples are: Azure Key Vault, Windows Credential Manager, Amazon Key Management Service, Google Cloud Key Management, etc. Microsoft provides instructions on how to handle secrets and passwords in applications. Read more about recommendations about passwords: [Handling Passwords](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secbp/handling-passwords). 

OSIsoft recommends referencing security documentation from the programing language or framework you develop your applications on to determine what secret management security features they provide. Another option is to use the hardware security module on the device your application runs on, or one of the cloud key management services that are available.

#### Create secrets with an Expiration Date
OSIsoft recommends following a secret rotation pattern. Secrets have a description and expiration date.
OSIsoft strongly advises against creating secrets that do not expire. 

#### Keep your Secrets in a Secure Location
OSIsoft recommends against storing secrets in text or transferring them through an insecure channel.

## Secret Rotation
* Avoid extending and re-using secrets that are close to their expiration date. 
* Generate a new secret before the expiration date of the current secret and make it available to the client. 
* Ensure that the client has the logic required to begin using the new secret.  
* Delete the expiring secret once it has been replaced with a new secret.
* Avoid extending and re-using secrets that are close to their expiration date. 
